import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Link from '@docusaurus/Link';

# ECR integration technical specification

:::note
`4.30.8`

- ECR integration is available

`4.31.1`

- new API: transaction inquiry
- new field: cardscheme
- refund API support partial refund amount request
- optimize connection performance
- fix other known issues
`4.32.5`
- ECR: optimize USB connection mechanism
- ECR: no password input required in app when initialize refund request
- ECR: allow control amount modification in refund request
- ECR: can set to use front camera or back camera in trade request
- ECR: support new parameter `out_trade_no` in order inquiry
- ECR: optimize WIFI connection mechanism

`4.32.8`

- ECR: support new parameter `wait_card_timeout` in payment request

:::

## 1. POS-KEY

POS-KEY is a secret key used to encrypt and decrypt the data. It is generated by Haojin App.

The default POS-KEY is `f46b1f08bec1f39104792cc79ec9aacd`
<br/>
The default encrpytion is ON.

There is an option to switch on/off on merchant portal (MMS) or refresh POS-KEY. And, Haojin App refresh is required to be effective
<br/>
**Steps to refresh POS-KEY**
Login Haojin App -> My -> Settings -> POS-Key -> generate

**Steps to check POS-KEY**
Login Shop Management Platform-> Settings -> Devices Settings -> POS Key Mgmt tab

## 2. Encryption

All data is encrypted by AES. The key is POS-KEY and the IV is `qfpay202306_hjsh`

<br/>

The data is encoded by Base64 after encryption.

## 3. Request payload format

| Parameter name | Mandatory | Parameter type | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| amt | required | Double | Amount e.g. $10.1 => 10.1 |
| func_type | required | String | Instruction code |
| channel | required | String | Wallet name, refer to Channel list |
| out_trade_no | optional | String | Merchant reference. <br/> if not passed, the out_trade_no won't be passed |
|camera_id|optional|Integer|can select using front camera or back camera in QR code payment CPM mode <br/> 0: back camera (default), <br/> 1: front camera
| wait_card_timeout | optional | Integer | can set waiting time in credit card payment page, default 120 seconds |

### 3.1 Payment

:::note
> For QR code payment, MPM/CPM mode is automatically selected base on last usage.
>
> Front camera or back camera can be selected  to use by parameter `camera_id`
>
> Time to wait for credit card payment in payment page can be set by parameter `wait_card_timeout`
:::

```json
{
    "content": {"amt": 100, "camera_id":0, "channel": "card_payment","func_type": 1001, "out_trade_no": "456799999999",
    "wait_card_timeout":120},
    "digest":"76b9186077cdc2bc5d78ae921309811d"
}
```

For inquiry the transaction result, please use the Inquire API: https://sdk.qfapi.com/?python#transaction-enquiry

### 2.2 Refund / Void

no password input is required in app when initialize refund request

specific parameters
| Parameter name | Mandatory | Parameter type | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
|orderId|required|String|QFPay transaction Id
| refund_amount | optional | String| the default refund amount is the refundable amount of the order,<br/> support partial refund |
|allow_modify_flag|optional| Integer| 0: Not allow modification of refund amount (default value) <br/> 1: allow modification of refund amount

:::note
> for Card payment, Unionpay Card and American Express Card,  the amount of same day refund must be `full amount`
:::

```json
{
     "content": {"allow_modify_flag":1, "func_type": 1002,"orderId": "order_id","refund_amount": "0.05"},
     "digest": "9C8E9FB05C7C24B6CA04EBFA1263EF41"
}

```

### 3.3 Print receipt

```json
{
    "content": {"orderId": "12345678","func_type": 3001},
    "digest":"79fd145311d54d03e4e685d50f15dd7f"
}
```

### 3.4 Print transaction summary

```json
{
    "content": {"func_type": 3002},
    "digest":"79fd145311d54d03e4e685d50f15dd7f"
}
```

### 3.5 Transaction inquiry by order Id

new paramter `out_trade_no` is supported

```json
{
     "content": {"orderId": "1234567890","func_type": 4001},
     "digest":"99CE8BF9C7304AC964522D10F51660B4"
}
```

### 3.6 Cancel trade/refund request

```json
{
    "content": {"func_type": 5001},
    "digest": "99CE8BF9C7304AC964522D10F51660B4"
}
```

content：data request payload
digest: signature of data request payload (content), sort the parameters in alphabetical ascending order and concat them in key=value format, use md5 algorithm to get hash value which is signature

## Generate signature

sample of generate signature

```javascript
// original payload
content={"amt":100,"channel": "card_payment","func_type":1001,"out_trade_no":"456799999999"} 

// sorted keys in alphabetical ascending order
format_content={amt=100,channel='card_payment',func_type=1001,out_trade_no='456799999999'} 

// encryption
// !! if the value is empty, pass '' (empty string) instead
digest=md5(format_content + pos_key)
digest=md5({amt=100,channel='card_payment',func_type=1001,out_trade_no='456799999999'}f46b1f08bec1f39104792cc79ec9aacd) 

```

if encryption is enabled, the above payload will be encrypted by AES at `content`, and the `digest` will be calculated based on the encrypted payload.

for example

```json
{
    "content": "{func_type: 3002}",
    "digest":"79fd145311d54d03e4e685d50f15dd7f"
}
```

## 4. Fields explanation

1、 func_type : business type
    (1) 1001 Trade
    (2) 1002 Refund
    (3) 3001 Print receipt
    (4) 3002 Print transaction summary
    (5) 4001 Transaction inquiry
    (6) 5001 Cancel trade/refund request

2、channel: payment method
    (1) 、card_payment  Card payment
    (2) 、wx            WeChat Pay
    (3) 、alipay        Alipay
    (4) 、payme         PayMe
    (5) 、union         UnionPay
    (6) 、fps           FPS
    (7) 、octopus       Octopus
    (8) 、unionpay_card Unionpay Card
    (9) `amex_card`     American Express Card

3、amt: Transaction amount

4、orderId: Transaction reference number, the same as out_trade_no

## 5. Response format

```json
{\"respcd\": \"6000\",\"data\": \"{"aaaaaa"}\",\"respmsg\": \"xxxxxxxxxx\",\"resperr\":\"xxxxxxxxxx\"}
```

1、respcd: response code
    （1）、"4003"，POS-KEY is invalid
    （2）、"5001"，Decryption failed
    （3）、"4004"，Request method is incorrect, may use POST request
    （4）、"4005"，Other errors
    （5）、"4006"  Incorrect parameter(s)
    （6）、"5001"，Decryption failed
    （7）、"6000"  request succeed
    （8）、"6001"  request cancel
    （9）、"6002"  request error

2、respmsg：Response message
3、resperr：Error message
4、data:response data from trade or refund request
    (1) data fields in trade response：
            respcd;response code
            resmsg;response message
            reserr;response error message
            mchntnm;merchant name
            sysdtm;system time
            userid;store Id
            busicd;business code
            txamt;transaction amount
            txcurrcd;transaction currency
            chnlsn;channel serial number
            paydtm;payment time
            udid;user id
            syssn;system serial number
            clisn;client serial number
            out_trade_no；merchant order Id
            cardscheme;card scheme, e.g. VISA
    (2) data field in refund response：
            respcd;response code
            resmsg;response message
            reserr;response error message
            sysdtm;system time
            paydtm;payment time
            txcurrcd;transaction currency
            txdtm;trsnaction time
            orig_syssn;original system serial number
            out_trade_no;merchant order Id
            syssn;system serial number
            chnlsn;channel serial number
            txamt;transaction amount
            originTxamt;original transaction amount
    (3) data field in transaction inquiry response:
            server_time;server time
            cancel;cancel status
            clisn;client serial number
            opuid;operator id
            prepay_amt;payment amount
            syssn;QF system serial number
            tradetp;payment type
            sysdtm;QF system time
            txcurrcd;transaction currency
            origssn;original system serial number
            customer_source;customer source
            opuser;operator
            nickname;user name
            allow_refund_amt;refundable amount
            desc;description
            txamt;transaction amount
            busicd;business code
            respcd;response code
            origbusicd;original business code
            chnlsn;channel serial number
            cardscheme;card scheme, e.g. VISA

## 6. USB data transmission method

 1. Connect the POS to the cash register via USB cable.
 2. follow the USB communication protocol to construct the data. See the ninth article for details: "Cash register & Pos communication protocol".
 3. Data response. The received data needs to be parsed according to the communication protocol, and then the data message is obtained, and then decrypted by AES.

## 7. HTTP protocol

 1. HTTP data transmission method requires POS host IP address and port. The default port of the HTTP method is 9001.
 2. Data message format:
     (1) Encrypt the data message through AES
     (2) Initiate the request through the HTTP Post request
 3. Request API
     (1) Trade: /api/pos/trade
     (2) Refund: /api/pos/cancel
     (3) Print receipt: /api/pos/print_receipt
     (4) Print transaction summary: /api/pos/transaction_info
     (5) Transaciton inquiry: /api/pos/query_transaction
     (6) Cancel trade/refund request: /api/pos/cancel_request
 4. The request header needs to be set. The request Content-type format is: application/json
 5. The request result needs to be decrypted by AES to obtain the response message data

## 8. TCP protocol

 1. The HTTP data transmission method requires POS host and port. The default port of the HTTP method is 9002.
 2. Cash register connects to POS through socket connection
 3. Data is transmitted through socket. The data format is the encrypted data of the data message after AES encryption.
 4. The result of the request needs to be decrypted by AES to obtain the response message data

## 9. Cash register & Pos communication protocol (USB)

### 9.1 Use scenario

The cash register and the smart POS device communicate through the serial port or Bluetooth to realize the cash register through the Haojin merchant App on the smart POS to collect and cancel the transaction.

### 9.2 Communication method

Serial port.

Through the Micro USB interface on the smart POS device or by borrowing the base to convert to USB Host mode, connect to the cash register via USB to serial cable.

USB is more stable than Wifi, secure, and easy to deploy.

### 9.3 Payload format

| Field name | content | Description | Length |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Start indicator | 0x2f6e | start of payload | 2 Bytes |
| version | 0x01 | version (static) | 1 Byte |
| payload type | 0x10<br/>0x20<br/>0x30 | request <br/> response <br/> response error | 1 Byte |
| response reference number | 0x01 ~ 0x7f | used for request/response, payload splitting / concatenation <br/> incremental for each, in loop | 1 Byte |
| payload length |   | total bytes from `Start indicator` to `End indicator` | 2 Bytes |
| payload length (data segment) |   |  total bytes of data segment | 2 Bytes |
| data segment |   | data segment, utf-8 encoding| non static |
| End indicator | 0x2f6e | indicate end of the payload | 2 Bytes|

### 9.4 detail explanation

#### Start indicator and end indicator

In order to avoid the situation that a data packet is split into multiple data blocks due to hardware reasons during communication, resulting in the inability to obtain the contents of the packet normally. The sender adds the start and end characters (0x2f6e) to each packet when sending the packet.

After the receiver receives the packet, it will check whether the first two bytes of the packet are the start character (0x2f6e). If not, an error packet (0x31) will be responded. Otherwise, continue to traverse the subsequent bytes until the end character.

:::danger
> 0x2f6e is the hexadecimal representation of `/n` (string, NOT the carriage return) in ASCII encoding
:::

#### Payload error type

| error type | description |
| --- | --- |
| 0x30 | unknown |
| 0x31 | format error |
| 0x32 | validation error |
| 0x33 | data segment decrypt error |
| 0x34 | data segment format error |
| 0x35 | data segment packets error |

#### request and response

When the receiver receives the request packet (packet type is 0x10), it needs to send a response packet to inform the sender of the result of receiving the packet. If the validation is successful, the response packet type is 0x20. If the validation fails, the response packet type is 0x32. The response packet number is the same as the request packet number.

#### response timeout

Response timeout is 1000ms, if timeout, the request is considered failed, and the device is disconnected.

#### payload length

 1. total length of the payload, from start indicator to end indicator
 2. payload length of data segment
 3. since the payload length is 2 bytes, the maximum length of the data segment is 65536 bytes
 4. it is recommended to keep the data segment length within 1024 bytes, if the data segment is too long, it should be split into multiple packets

##### Data pack splitting and concatenation

When sender splits the data segment into multiple packets, the packet number is the same, and the packet length is the total length of the data segment. The receiver needs to wait for the subsequent packets with the same packet number until the packet length is equal to the total length of the data segment, and then send the response packet.

The receiver waits for the timeout of multiple packets to be *500*ms. After the timeout, the previously received packets are discarded. If subsequent packets with the same number are received, an error (0x35) response packet is sent.

#### Data encryption

The sender and receiver need to encrypt the valid data using the AES algorithm. The key is allocated by the service provider.

Key length 16 bytes 128 bits

Key offset *****
Algorithm mode CBC (Cipher Block Chaining) encryption block chain
Padding method PKCS5Padding

#### Serial port settings

Baud rate: 9600
Stop bit: 1
Parity bit: 0
Data bit: 8
Flow control: off

##### USB to serial port line chip type supported

PL2303 HXD supported
CH340 not supported
FT232 not supported

The above chip types are the most common USB to serial port chips on the market. The stability and price of the three chips are the same, FT232>CH340>PL2303

#### Sample data

Sample data is as follows:

```plaintext
{\"content\":\"{\\\"amt\\\":100,\\\"channel\\\":\\\"wx\\\",\\\"funcType\\\":1,\\\"mode\\\":1}\",\"digest\":\"2f0c4683e25a7b9407265033070e9034\"}
```

complete data request content(Hexadecimal format):

```plaintext
2f6e011001007f00747b22636f6e74656e74223a227b5c22616d745c223a3130302c5c226368616e6e656c5c223a5c2277785c222c5c2266756e63547970655c223a312c5c226d6f64655c223a317d222c22646967657374223a223266306334363833653235613762393430373236353033333037306539303334227d2f6e
```
